1) In your own words explain at its core what a computer is really doing  whenever you type a letter on a keyboard ?

When you press a letter on a keyboard it pushes down a button that makes contact with the key that causes a closed electrical circuit. Meaning that the electrical circuit that is now activated is able to send electrical impulses to communicate with the computer. Think of it as turning a light switch on which causes a closed circuit between itself and the light bulb making the light bulb turn on. Now those electrical impulses are able to send signals via wires to the CPU. The CPU is basically the computer's brain. The CPU is able to receive these signals through a device called a keyboard controller in the keyboard. The keyboard controller's purpose is to let the CPU know to stop whatever it's doing and that a letter (key) has been pressed and raises an keyboard interrupt alert thus basically acting as the middleman. Then the signal gets translated into a scan code for whatever letter or key we pressed. Then the scan code gets passed to the operating system. The operating system that is run by the CPU is constantly checking for letters being pressed and also knows how your keyboard is layed out. By knowing this it is able to match the code to the letters being pressed which causes an event that sends the unicode to the appropriate application with a code for the letter u pressed. Then the application sends the code back to the CPU which then sends it to the GPU ( Graphics Processing Unit ) which sends the code to your computer monitor for display. With all of this happening super fast you're able to see what you're pressing on your keyboard in the monitor in nsync sort of way.  



2) Explain in your own words what is a packet of data ?

Data packets are small physical memory storage used to store data while it's being transferred from one place to another. It's basically virtual mail going to its requested owner. Like the mail we used to receive at our home data packets have an address on them called IP addresses as well as routing information and metadata ( a set of data that describes information about other data). This all helps the data packets find their destination. For example we wanna access a desired web page. What happens then is that your computer asks for a copy of the web page to the world server by using data packets. In this data packet the IP address of the world server is there with the data of the web page you requested through the data packet forwarding switch.The data packets may travel a long way to its destination. Let's say you're in Germany and the world server is in the US this means the data packets have to travel thousands and thousands of miles. This is made all possible by underground copper cables and underwater copper cables. The data packets travel to the country or cities main hub . From there they travel underground through the copper cable and underwater optic cables to the next closest main hub and networks to reach the world server. Once the world server receives the request through data from the webpage it gets ready to send the web page to the requester with all the information it sends to build itself back up to the requester . Sometimes the problem with this is that the webpage data may be too big to send it all back at once. This is where data packets are important. That webpage gets broken down into little packets of data into different virtual envelopes all having the same destination through IP addresses. This becomes helpful now since the data is broken down to small packets and it can take many different routes to beat network traffic and congestion to reach its destination in time. 


       
3) Explain Data Rate, Throughput and Bandwidth. 

 Every network connection that is available to us has a data rate. Data rate is described as the amount of data transferred during a specific time period.  It is basically the speed at which you may transfer data from one device to another.  Data rates are usually measured in kilobits (kbps) per second, or Megabits (mbps)  per second or Megabytes (MBps) per second.   
 
Bandwidth is the potential amount of data that may be transferred from one device to another within a specific time period. It is essentially the number of bits per second that a link can send or receive.  This means that if the bandwidth is 200 MBPS, that is the maximum amount of data transmission speed.  This differs from data rate because data rate is the specific current amount of data being transferred, while bandwidth is the potential maximum amount of data that could be transferred. The difference between bandwidth and data rate can be equated to the amount of rats that can travel through an underground pipe.  The size of the pipe may allow for a maximum of 60 rats to travel through per minute (bandwidth), but there might only be 30 rats traveling through per minute (data rate).    
 
Throughput is how much data can be transferred from our source to a destination within a time frame. It is the effectiveness of how fast data is being transferred. While bandwidth is the perfect outcome, throughput is the most realistic outcome happening at the moment. Basically how much data is being transferred in actual time, the throughput looks at what’s happening in real time and measures the performance of a network. 


4) Explain in your own words Datagram Forwarding.

Datagram forwarding is a way to send out packets of data to your desired destination. Every single switch has a forwarding table (destination).  This comes down to intervening switches or routers to look up specific addresses (IP) and get the packet to its destination. We can think of this as a mailman deciding where mail goes.  In this case, in order for this virtual “mail” to make it to its destination, there must be enough information in the packets to trigger the switches that decide how it gets to its destination. Each switch has a forwarding table which is essentially a neighboring IP address to send it closer to its destination.  This is called next_hop information, which is the closest neighboring address that a package should be forwarded to.  In the next_hop process, each switch is only responsible for one thing; to send a packet in the next_hop to its destination path. If everything goes as planned, the switches in the network will be able to deliver the packet one hop at a time to its destination. Switches can determine the next hoop using its forwarding table and destination address for the arriving packets. With all this being said, datagram forwarding is simply the steps needed to be taken for transferring data from one destination to the other.


5) Explain Algorithms in your own words. 

An algorithm is a set of steps for a computer program to accomplish any given task. Algorithms allow all devices like computers and smart phones to work properly and make the right decisions. We as humans correspond with algorithms as well, as we are consistently taking steps in order to accomplish various tasks.  For example, if we would like to make a sandwich, there are necessary steps for us to take in order to accomplish that task.  Programs in our computers, smart phones, and other devices also need to take necessary steps to accomplish what the user is specifically asking for.  Every device has codes in their programs that are made up of algorithms.  For example, if we are using the navigation app Waze and we are trying to figure out how to get from point A to point B, the app itself first uses one algorithm to look up the different routes to your destination.  It then uses a different algorithm to detect the traffic patterns along the route.  The third algorithm uses both sets of information to give you the best possible route with the least amount of traffic to get you to your destination.  If these algorithms were not put in perfectly by code in such applications, Waze would not be able to work properly and provide you with the best possible route. It is important that each algorithm is coded perfectly so that every single part of every device is able to function and run properly to perform the tasks that are asked.


6) Explain network topology.

A network topology is the arrangement of connection points that can receive, create, store or send data. It consists of switches, routers and connections in a network that are usually represented in a graph.  Or we can refer to a network topology as an arrangement of nodes.  There are two different types of topologies. Two examples of topologies would be physical topology and logical topology.  Physical topology of a network would consist of wires and fiber optics.  One example of that would be the star network topology, where you would have a device in the middle (like a switch) and the surrounding devices would be connected directly to an ethernet switch through ethernet links. That would be ideal in office spaces.  A logical topology means the relationship between nodes and logical connections.  A logical connection is different from a physical connection like wires and cables.  This is essentially wireless topology, where all the devices communicate through an access point. One of the logical topologies consists of infrastructure wireless topology.  In the infrastructure, all devices communicate through an access point so that we can wirelessly access the access point to communicate with others.  This is what people use to communicate through an access point.  To put it basically, logical topology is the transmission of data over physical topology.  With that being said, physical topology is the actual, physical connection of the network and logical topology is the data path followed by the network.  Both physical and logical topology work together to transmit, receive, create , store and troubleshoot data.
