1) Explain in your own words what is an Operating System.

An operating system is a software that communicates with the hardware. A lot of things revolve around the operating system in a computer.   The operating system allows us to manage a computer’s hardware or dictates what a computer’s hardware does. It controls interactions between various computer pieces such as memory, hard drives, CPU, and keyboards.  It controls it in a sense that it allows these components to communicate back and forth with each other.  The operating system is also the source that all applications run through.  These applications could include anything from opening a word document, opening emails, and opening and using the internet browser application.  All these things will happen through the operating system. The operating system is also a way for us humans to interact with the computer itself. The hardware is unable to do everything on its own. An example of this is when we interact with the technology itself and use a mouse and keyboard to accomplish any computer tasks, we need the operating system to control these peripheral devices.  Some operating system features are things such as file management (adding, editing, deleting any files in your computer), downloading different applications (music apps, mail apps, navigation apps, etc.) and application support for these applications to run such as memory management, swap file management, process management, device management security as well as handling input and output support. Meaning that while you’re using these apps information is stored through hard drives or transferring data or information processing through printer’s keyboards and using mouses; this all able to be accomplished through the interactions and communication from the operating system. The operating system also allows you to manage the overall operation of itself through utilities or programs to have you manage any aspect of it. So with all being said an operating system is a vital component of a computer's software in a computer system. 


2)Describe the types of Operating Systems.

There are different types of operating systems.  The examples that I will give are of the two most popular systems.  These two systems are Microsoft Windows OS and Apple Mac OS.  The Windows OS has been available to us since the 1980’s. It has had many versions and updates to it, like Windows 95, Windows Vista, Windows 7, 8, 10 etc.  With every update, the user can have a better experience through a more improved software and hardware. Windows has a large market presence, which gives it a huge advantage over other operating systems. This is since a lot of today’s applications are already made so that they can run within the Windows operating system. Also, the different versions of it increase the reliability of it being able to be used in big data centers for big apps, or simply at home for smaller ones. There are also some disadvantages with it being so popular and having a large number of systems. One disadvantage is the fact that they become a big target of security breaches, which means that if hackers were to find one way to breach into the windows system, they will be able to take advantage of millions of users. Another challenge of Windows is that it has to support different hardware, like different monitors, different video cards, different storage devices and different types of printers. What makes it challenging, is that they all must interact and work properly with each other.  Another popular operating system is the Mac OS, which is designed to run only on Apple hardware.  Some people may prioritize this operating system because it is designed for easy use, which sometimes gives it an advantage. Since it is designed to run only on Apple hardware, the operating system and hardware are extremely compatible and run into very few problems.  Another advantage is that it has a lot less security risks compared to that of Windows OS. With that being said, since it requires Apple hardware and Apple components are more expensive, it gets a lot less industry support for apps running on that system rather than Windows OS which you can choose and match components for a better price.
 


3) Explain what are services of an OS Subsystem ?

Kernel I/O subsystem is responsible for providing many services that have to do with the I/O.  One of these sources provided by the subsystem is called scheduling.  Kernel will schedule whatever I/O requests.  It recognizes and figures out a good sequence to carry out.  The outcome of scheduling is that it improves the overall performance of the system as well as sharing device access permission properly to the processes. It also reduces the average weight, response and turnaround time for I/O to complete.  Subsystem is also responsible for buffering, meaning it preserves a memory area that stores data being transferred to two devices or a device and application. The reason for buffering is to manage speed mismatch between producer and consumer of the data stream.  It is also used to provide adjustments for data that have different transfer sizes.  Buffering may also copy semantics for the application I/O.  Caching is also a service provided by the subsystem. A cache is a part of a fast memory that carries a copy of data. So when running process, you store it on a disc, then cache in physical memory, then it is copied again in CPU, secondary, and primary cache. Another service subsystem is responsible for, is spooling.  Spooling is responsible for holding the output of a device.  Another service of the subsystem is error handling. Error handling is responsible for correcting any hardware and application errors by using protected memory.



4)Explain Portability in your own words.  

Portability is when a software is able to work on different types of hardware.  Basically when a software is portable it means it can be rearranged for a different platform. You would be able to move the software from one platform or environment to another. It also refers to the fact that it would be easy to move a software program between operating systems. Software portability may involve the transfer of installed programs files to another computer of basically the same setup. When you input a software lets say in a usb and then then it may be used on any compatible computer thus making the software portable. It may also involve building binary programs for different platforms from any collections of code.  Another example of Portability is that if you want to port an application to Linux OS you have to modify the program to run it on that software. Some softwares may be less portable than others because every single software has its limitations. Another way we can describe portability is when we describe the flexibility of the use of data. Some file formats may be less portable than others. For example, if you wanna view PDF or JPEG formats it depends on if you have the appropriate software applications. To some it up the common Portability kind are application source code and data portability. 


5)Explain network topology.

Physical and logical topology networks do not have to be exactly the same.  However, both of them may be broken down into five different types.  Now, one of these network topologies is called a Bus Network.  In the Bus Network, all the devices or nodes are connected consecutively to the same backbone or transmission line.  This is a low cost simple topology. There is also a Star Topology. In a Star Topology, all the nodes are connected through a main middle device like a switch or a hub via cables.  Sometimes when there is a problem with cable connections or nodes it may not cause a lot of down time or delay in the network, but it would cause delay or down time in the main device.  This topology is a popular and heavily preferred one.   Another type of topology is the Ring Topology.  Similar to the Bus Network, all the network devices are connected consecutively to a back bone, but the backbone ends in the starting nodes, which forms a ring.  The Ring Topology would normally be used if there is a high throughput demand. We also have a Tree Topology, which is when a root node is connected to two or more sublevel nodes. Those sublevel nodes are connected to sublevel nodes themselves.  This topology would be similar to the Bus and Star topologies because its network backbone could have a Bus Topology and the low level nodes connect using Star Topology. The last of the topologies would be the Mesh Topology. Each node is connected to a few or all present nodes in the network. This would be ideal for a critical network due to the fact that it endures more and is less prone to failure.  
