a.) What is Git and how is it different from Github?

Git is a free and open source administrator version control system which is designed to operate everything from small to large projects. It was developed by Linus Torvalds who was the famous creator of the Linux Operating System. Git is easy to learn and is also well known for its very fast performance. When using Git all operations are performed locally meaning its gives it a big speed advantage over centralized systems that usually always have to communicate with a server somewhere. It bypasses other SCM tools by having features such as cheap local branching, multiple workflows and convenient staging areas. There are some differences between Git and Github. Git is installed and maintained on your local system rather than in the iCloud. Also what sets it apart from Github is its branching model which allows you to create independent local branches in your code. With that being said Github is designed as a Git repository hosting service. It is exclusively cloud based and someone's Git repositories can be remotely accessed by an authorized user. Also unlike Git , Github is a for-profit service. Github also expands on Git's normal functions, it gives the user a very initiative graphical interface and is able to give programmers built-in control and task-management tools.


b.) Why do we use the terminal ?

We use the terminal because this is where we are able to send any text commands we want to our computer to do certain stuff like copying and manipulating files , or navigate through our directory. Basically the terminal allows us to send text commands.


c.) Explain 3 benefits of version control in your own words. 


One benefit of version control is that if you are working on a project with a team full of people everyone is able to work freely on any file at any time then later on the version control to mash all the changes in one common version. There would be no confusion or questions where the latest version of a file or the whole project itself is. Another benefit is that if you want you can work remotely independent on your own even if you are part of a team project. One other big benefit is that it restores previous versions of a file or the whole project this comes in handy because let's say your latest changes are any good you can always go back and erase with a click of a button it basically hard for someone to mess up anything there's always a sense of a cushion with any change u may want to make to a project. 
